Dear all,
we live with so many
worries that we don't know how to
solve. Sometimes it's just
worrying about money and food, whether we
're happy in our family life or
not, but we have many other
worries that go beyond that.
When we are born
poor, we
worry about money and food; when we are ugly, we worry about our
appearance; when
we are not intelligent, we worry about how to become
intelligent and wise to
lessen our
suffering; when
our children are not well-behaved, we worry about
how to make them well-behaved.
Because we have to worry about all of these things, as
human beings, we must worry about them.
Today, I come to share with you a
greater worry: worrying about our
next life.
We are born in this life ugly, poor, and with all
sorts of problems. We accept the consequences,
but those consequences are caused by our past lives.
Therefore, we cannot choose
whose child we will be born into, nor
can we choose whether we will be ugly or
beautiful.  We can choose
whether I will be rich or poor, but we cannot
choose what kind of friends we should have.
Coming to
Buddhism gives us the right and the knowledge to
choose for ourselves in the next life, and to
change ourselves in this life
and choose for ourselves in the next.
Today, I'm sharing with the congregation a
sutra on impermanence, specifically the section on impermanence in the
Dhammapada.
The abbot has already lectured on this,
so that we can
adapt to our current lives,
know how to care for ourselves, and know how to control ourselves
not only in this life but also in the
next. So that
before we die, we
know what our afterlife will be like,
without confusion or fear. The sutra of the slaughtered cattle is said to show that
when someone
knows how to care for themselves in
this life, they will not be like
this herd of cattle. This is what the Buddha said: "The
slaughtered cattle" is a sutra of the ancient Manjushri. The Buddha,
in the Bamboo Grove of the city of La Duyet Ky, one
day, he and his disciples accepted the invitation.
After the Dharma lecture in the city,
the Buddha and his disciples left the city in the late afternoon to
return to the monastery. On the way,
they encountered a man herding a
flock of cattle into the city after letting
them graze outside all day. At that time, the Buddha
recited a verse, saying, "Just as a man with a
stick herds cattle, feigning death, is like that, herding away
lives—hundreds of thousands, no
man, woman, or family, no matter how much wealth they possess, can
escape this feigned death. Life,
day and night, gradually diminishes,
lifespan dwindles like water draining from a pond." The
Buddha arrived at the bamboo grove, washed his feet, and
sat down. Ananda stepped forward, bowed, and
asked, "Venerable Lord, you
recited three verses on the way here, and we still
don't quite understand them. Please, Venerable Lord, enlighten us."
The Buddha
asked, "Ananda, did you see the man herding the
cattle?" "Yes, Venerable Lord,"
replied Ananda. The Buddha explained, "
Ananda, those cattle belong to a butcher's shop,
which has thousands of cattle. Every day, the owner
sends people to herd them out of the city to find
fresh grass."  They feed them with clean water,
raise them, and each day they choose the
biggest, fattest one to slaughter. The remaining slaughtered cows
remain unaware, still fighting, butting heads, jumping, and
bleating like us. Because of our
pity for their ignorance and lack of wisdom, we
utter these three verses. Ananda, it's not just
those ignorant cows; people are the same.
They cling to their ego,
unaware of impermanence, and are attached to the five desires,
only concerned with nourishing their bodies and satisfying their minds. This leads to the
calamity of impermanence and past
karma, which
arrives unexpectedly, yet they remain oblivious. How are they any
different from those cows? At that time,
among the assembly of 200 billion people who were attached to worldly gain,
upon hearing this Dharma, they immediately
encouraged themselves and attained Arhatship, possessing the six supernatural powers. The assembly rejoiced and bowed to the Buddha.
The verse about the
cows is likened to the person who herds them,
fattening them up. This is
because we lack understanding, and
we only care about caring for our
bodies, how to feed them well,
how to feed them.  How can it be dressed beautifully so it
can sleep a lot, how can it be
touched by the bodies of men and women so it can be comfortable and
not suffer? That is called peace and happiness. Having everything in this life is
like
that owner who only feeds, drinks, and lets his cows sleep
so they get fat and then slaughters them.
We, on the other hand, are ignorant. Because
we are ignorant, we don't understand
that after death we must be
reborn. We don't know
that we must continue
life after death. Therefore, we don't
worry about the afterlife, only about
satisfying our five desires, indulging in worldly pleasures. When we
die, the blade of
death, called Yama, the
god of death, takes us away.
We don't know where he takes us—
down to the three evil paths: hell, the realm of hungry ghosts, or the animal realm. We
don't know if we'll be reborn as a
buffalo or not. If we become a buffalo,
we'll still be demanded to use our
labor and killed. Cows, chickens,
dogs—then all kinds of animals
devour each other. We don't know
that, humankind...  Actually,
only humans kill to die, but we
humans eat all kinds of things,
all kinds of animals, now we even eat ants and
fried chickens, we eat everything. Speaking of
blessings, humans have the greatest blessings because we can
eat all kinds of things, while other
animals are less self-defense than humans.
Compared to other realms,
humans are still happier. In the realms of
hell and animals, humans are happier
because humans protect themselves. We can
think for ourselves, so we don't suffer much, only
suffering comes from our interactions with other humans,
and the suffering is really in our own hearts.
Those other animals don't have that kind of freedom;
they are completely passive,
while we humans are proactive.
We can decide what
we do and not do.
But a buffalo or a cow is born
into a certain life, and it's inevitable; it
can never be
otherwise. A chicken or a dog is born into
a certain life, and it's also destined for that kind of existence. As for
us, even if we don't like a
job, we quit; if we don't like a job here, we
work somewhere else.  If someone doesn't like this job, they can choose another one.
We have the right to be proactive,
and it's the same here.
People must understand
impermanence. That is, we live, and then we will
die. After death, we must be
reborn. We are obligated to be reborn, so
we must worry about
our reincarnation
so that we can continue our next life without suffering too much.
We can endure it, right?
Animals can't endure it.
For example, I saw a
dog that was bitten and
its ears and face were torn apart like this, but the dog
had to endure it silently to bear the
pain. It also feels pain, doesn't it? It doesn't hurt. I feel pain, I
know I'm in pain. You feel pain, but
you say you feel pain, and I don't know what
pain is like. People with lung cancer are in so much pain; they
cry out, "It's
so painful!" But I do feel compassion,
but I can't feel
the pain of the person who is suffering.
You see, I'm the same.
Today I cut my finger, it hurts so much,
but about two months later I
forget about it.  The feeling is always just that
it hurts, but when it comes to remembering the details, even the
pain itself is
forgotten. So here, we
have to know that we are alive and
we must continue to be reborn. What should we do
to make our rebirth
less painful? Because in this life, almost everyone, whether
rich or poor, experiences suffering.
Everyone experiences suffering.
In Buddhist teachings, there are ways to
guide our thinking,
speaking, and actions so that in
our next life, we have
better relationships with other beings.
For example, if we know how to forgive,
we know that in our next life we ​​will meet
people who love us, not be
born into a place where everyone hates
us, not be born into a place where
people don't come to our aid.
Knowing how to love and forgive brings about
that.
Because we understand impermanence and the need to
continue being reborn in the next life,
we must listen to Buddhist teachings so that
we know how to think
correctly.  To let us know about love and
forgiveness, we need to understand impermanence. Those who
constantly contemplate impermanence know that
they will die and be reborn.
What karmic consequences will their actions bring in the
next life? In this present life, if we
do good, those around us
will also benefit.
For example, if we are filial,
our parents will benefit. If we know how to forgive and
love, our spouse,
children, and friends will benefit,
and we will also
benefit. Because our hearts are peaceful,
we won't suffer or be troubled by anger. Anger causes
suffering, and our
nature leads us to seek revenge. Those who don't know how to
love and forgive will seek revenge. But those who know how to forgive won't seek
revenge. Therefore, we must
think about impermanence to do
everything. Sometimes, if we don't think about
impermanence, we will never have the
motivation to progress. There will always
be someone in front of us,
ready to harm us or seek revenge.
We must think about impermanence.  I
think that if we continue to live wickedly
like that, we have to accept that
things like this will happen in the next life. If we
don't forgive, we have to accept that there will
always be people holding us accountable for our mistakes,
preventing us from escaping. We
shouldn't be like a herd of cows. Why does the Buddha
teach here that ignorance and lack of wisdom are due to ignorance and lack of knowledge?
Because ignorance and
lack of
wisdom lead to
understanding and analysis. Therefore, it's called
lack of wisdom. We lack the wisdom to listen to and
analyze things about cause and effect. We
can't analyze
our own thoughts and feelings, where cause and effect
lead. That's
why the Buddha calls it lack of wisdom. A herd of
cows doesn't have the opportunity to hear
good things. They have good karma, but they
lack the ability, so
they are called lack of wisdom. But we have the full
opportunity to become wise because we
listen a lot, so our
wisdom increases. Listening a lot increases wisdom,
so what we need to do is
listen to the Buddha's teachings a lot, and if we
want to have wisdom...  We need to contemplate impermanence
a lot. What does it mean to contemplate impermanence?
Sometimes people just contemplate impermanence and think that
even after death, there will still be rebirth.
But it's not about contemplating impermanence. It means
contemplating it in every thought and action. This is how we think, how we behave,
and how we harm someone who has been kind to us. Then
we are
impermanent, we die, and the karmic consequences
in the next life are: Firstly, we won't
meet the person who helped us again
because we are ungrateful. That means we stay away from
those who often help us. Being ungrateful
has two consequences:
firstly, in the next life,
we will avoid those who helped us, feeling unable to be close to them
because we reject the karmic
reward of being helped. That
's what an
ungrateful person suffers. Secondly, we will suffer the karmic consequence of being ungrateful to others. Not only will we
not receive help from anyone, but we will also be treated
ungratefully
by others. It's very painful. Yen has
stories shared by people who
called her.  This woman, she
lives in Sweden. She called home and said, "
I've been abroad for 20 years,
20 years now, but I've never
had any money. I'm always in
debt, raising three children. I've always
married one man and then divorced another. I only manage to make a living for
a
year at most, but if it's not a marriage, I
live quite well.
Now that I know about Buddhism, I've significantly reduced the killing of animals and
avoided
many evil deeds.
But currently, I have
an elderly mother in Vietnam who needs
5 million Vietnamese dong a month for
medicine, and I also have other family members over
there. Sometimes I don't dare to speak up. I'm on the verge of
bankruptcy; it's too much, I
don't know how to express it. Sometimes I
just want to die, but then I think about my three
children who have no one to take care of them. How
can I die?" She called home, clearly in great
distress.
So, this is because in her previous life, she
didn't know about the karmic connection to Buddhism, didn't know
about impermanence, didn't know how to take care of
herself, didn't know how to accumulate merit, and now
she's suffering so much.  There must also be some
economic
factors involved, such as not knowing how to give alms, not knowing how to make offerings, not knowing how to forgive, not knowing how to love, not knowing how to be faithful, not knowing how to show loyalty and affection. Just one aspect, the fact that my husband isn't with me has many causes. Firstly,
in that karmic cycle, I also committed
adultery and destroyed the happiness of another family.
Secondly, I lived without meaning,
without love, without forgiveness or affection. Because when a husband and
wife separate, there must be
a cause of discord. Discord leads to a lack of love and forgiveness. Furthermore, they don't know how to listen, communicate, or show affection. This leads to
painful consequences in the next life. They
might not be able to live with one or two
husbands, but instead have to
leave one after another.
These karmic connections are not insignificant. Therefore, if
one constantly contemplates impermanence in
every thought, if one cultivates
this mindset of impermanence, what kind of
consequences will one experience? Because they continue to be
reborn while contemplating impermanence—that is, contemplating
rebirth, not
impermanence itself. I'm just thinking...  Every worldly observation
is impermanent. The changing world is not
enough. That's just letting go of
attachment right now, not being attached to the
world. But if you
deeply contemplate impermanence, what you
call self-contemplation of impermanence,
you must know that whatever happens to you is
impermanent. If you harm others with
this mindset, then impermanence will come to you, and you will be
reborn with this mindset.
So, if you relinquish this physical body
right now, this mindset will
cause you to be reborn, and what kind of karmic retribution will you receive?
Consider a dog.
This is its territory. A dog relies on its
proximity to home, a chicken relies on its proximity to its coop. It might
run to another place, four or five dogs, but once it reaches
its home,
it can attack any dog ​​without
ever thinking that attacking another will
kill it, and it doesn't know what it gains from this territory.
But
once the dog has returned to its home,
even if another dog is 100 times more ferocious than this one,
no matter how weak it is, it
will still attack.  It is born to fight to the death,
unaware of pain,
unaware of anything. Therefore, when two
dogs fight, even if you hit them with a stick,
they won't back down because
their nature is rebirth, stemming from attachment and
anger. That is, if something harms them, takes away
a little of their possession, or infringes upon them, they
think they must reclaim it, take
revenge, and cannot let
go. They cannot forgive, they cannot accept loss. It's the same for them. Upon being
born as a dog, they immediately recognize
this master. This is their territory,
their domain; they cannot be violated. That means
they only fight to the death; if it is violated, they will fight to the death. That's
the nature of a dog, and that's
the karma of a dog. It's the
same here. If
you are truly fighting to the death for something,
but you are
impermanent in that moment of clinging to
that mindset, you will immediately fall into ruin. That's
why people often think about
impermanence, and they tend to be inclined towards goodness.
This person is stealing and robbing
me.  I was cheated out of some property like
this. Returning to the principle of karma, I
must have had some negative or unwholesome karma, which is
why I was robbed like
this. I don't resent
or blame anyone for that; I will go through
legal means to get my property back. But I will still go through
legal means, yet my heart is free from hatred because
I understand karma.
My mind remains at peace. I'm going through legal means: "
You took my property, I'll go, I'll hire a
lawyer, but I'll hire a lawyer to get my
property back, not to curse you, 'I'll
kill you, I'll give you this.' I don't need that.
I still live at peace in this life. It's not like I'm going to practice asceticism
and contemplate
impermanence, not seeking revenge or
suing. That's not how it is.
I know that injustice is due to karma, so I will
still sue in this life,
but I won't let anger and resentment lead to
harm. Because I live in Vietnam,
I have abundant blessings. The
Vietnamese law is my blessing;
this blessing protects me.
So, as long as there is law and I can sue,
I still have blessings.
People have rights wherever they are, and
that right is a blessing. For example, in
foreign countries, they have the right to protect
animals, preventing the slaughter of animals
like pigeons.
Even though pigeons are reborn as
birds, they have
another blessing: they have the right to be
protected there. Here in Vietnam, they are caught and eaten.
So, pigeons are also
infected and born here
without the right to protection. Therefore, the
protection of the law is a blessing.
We use our blessing, the
law, to find every way
to clear our names. That way,
we remain free, but we also understand
impermanence. We understand that this is
because we created karma in our previous lives, and in
this life, we receive the blessing
of the law. We sue to the end to clear
our names, but we don't harbor hatred towards
the person who falsely
accused us, because hatred only exists in
our hearts. Whether we succeed or not depends on
our actions in dealing with the law. Therefore, we
don't hold grudges or need resentment.  If you curse someone, calling them this or
that, and they blame you, then
you go to court, that's all. But if
you know you have karma and
repent, then your actions depend on your understanding.
Your blessings increase, and if you don't
curse others further and create more
karma, you'll have the opportunity to
win the lawsuit. That means, in that very incident,
you're still accumulating more blessings than
those who curse, harbor resentment,
think of malicious ways to harm others, and then sue. The
other person creates more karma, making the lawsuit
more difficult. That's why people often
think about impermanence and say, "If
you harm or resent the person who falsely accuses you,
then in the next life, this anger and resentment
won't be seen in the lawsuit. After death, you'll be reborn into a lower realm.
Thinking about impermanence benefits
both your present life and the
future. A person who understands impermanence is a wise
person; they benefit both in the present and in the
next life. That is, when your mind is free from anger and resentment, you won't get tired,
you wo
n't get sick, you won't get ill right away."
That's the benefit I've already received for my body.
So, in practicing Buddhism,
I must receive benefits right now
before I can think about future benefits. For example, if
someone says that eating this food
will cure a disease, I know that
first, eating this food must
not kill me, then it will cure the disease.
That is, I must not die first. It's the same
here. I must benefit
in the present life, then I can think about the next life. To
say, "I'll wait
until the next life," and not benefit in the present,
is a mistake. I
contemplate impermanence in every thought. But
that will help me benefit
in this life. I receive great benefits in this life, and
then I will benefit in the next life.
If I don't benefit in this life...
If there is absolutely no benefit in the next life, then if
we encounter something that
someone is urging us to do, something
that doesn't bring immediate benefit,
we shouldn't do it. For example, if someone says, "
You've lost a very large sum of money,
then you should perform this ritual,
and you'll get it back gradually."
So what should I do?
First, I must eliminate hatred, understand
the law of karma, and have a peaceful mind.
Otherwise, it will cause headaches and
suffering. By understanding karma,
I will naturally become more peaceful, and then
I can start doing other things.
But you must understand karma first. Only then will
I be pure in
this law of karma. I say, "That's enough. Because in my
previous life I also deceived people, so
now I am being deceived like this. I
don't blame the deceiver, but I
will use the law to make sure that the
deceiver is brought to
court and doesn't continue to deceive others.
That's contributing to society. Secondly, I will
use this action..."  What's the point of making the
scammer pay me back? I don't need to be
angry, I don't need to curse, I
don't need to beat them up.
That's already helping me in the present moment.
Then I believe in karma, that
I can accumulate merit and dedicate it to
others. That's the later point. If I'm going to give alms, I have to see the effect of my giving.
I'm suffering like this. Yes, I want to
resolve my suffering, so I have to give alms or make offerings to the
Three Jewels. When I make offerings to the Three Jewels,
I clearly see that this money is used
to support the monks, so they can help
people abandon evil and
become virtuous. If they help people abandon evil and become virtuous, then there will be fewer scammers.
People will understand karma and they
won't scam anymore. So I also want to
prevent others from being scammed like me, so
I make offerings to the Three Jewels so that the
monks can teach the Buddha's teachings, making
this society less prone to fraud. I have to
see that before I believe in making
offerings. If you tell me to do
something for someone
I don't know, then I'm not going to do it.  Does this person
bring any benefit? Does it satisfy
my mind? If I don't do that, then
today I'm coming to the public to talk about the fact that
we must understand impermanence in
every thought, then we can be
happy right now. We can be
happy later, unlike those
cows who don't know how to think, don't know how to
observe. They just eat and drink to their heart's content, committing sins, greed, anger, and delusion, and then
in this life they cause suffering to
many people. Then impermanence comes to them, they are
reborn and have to suffer again, which is very
painful.
[Music]
I